# MODEL1106080000: 

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1106080000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1106080000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**iAB-RBC-283: A proteomically derived knowledge-base of erythrocyte metabolism that can be used to simulate its physiological and patho-physiological states.**   
Bordbar A, Jamshidi N, Palsson BO. _BMC Syst Biol._ 2011 Jul 12;5(1):110.
[21749716](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21749716) ,  
**Abstract:**   
BACKGROUND: The development of high-throughput technologies capable of whole
cell measurements of genes, proteins, and metabolites has led to the emergence
of systems biology. Integrated analysis of the resulting omic data sets has
proved to be hard to achieve. Metabolic network reconstructions enable complex
relationships amongst molecular components to be represented formally in a
biologically relevant manner while respecting physical constraints. In silico
models derived from such reconstructions can then be queried or interrogated
through mathematical simulations. Proteomic profiling studies of the mature
human erythrocyte have shown more proteins present related to metabolic
function than previously thought; however the significance and the causal
consequences of these findings have not been explored. RESULTS: Erythrocyte
proteomic data was used to reconstruct the most expansive description of
erythrocyte metabolism to date, following extensive manual curation,
assessment of the literature, and functional testing. The reconstruction
contains 281 enzymes representing functions from glycolysis to cofactor and
amino acid metabolism. Such a comprehensive view of erythrocyte metabolism
implicates the erythrocyte as a potential biomarker for different diseases as
well as a 'cell-based' drug-screening tool. The analysis shows that 94
erythrocyte enzymes are implicated in morbid single nucleotide polymorphisms,
representing 142 pathologies. In addition, over 230 FDA-approved and
experimental pharmaceuticals have enzymatic targets in the erythrocyte.
CONCLUSION: The advancement of proteomic technologies and increased generation
of high-throughput proteomic data have created the need for a means to analyze
these data in a coherent manner. Network reconstructions provide a systematic
means to integrate and analyze proteomic data in a biologically meaning
manner. Analysis of the red cell proteome has revealed an unexpected level of
complexity in the functional capabilities of human erythrocyte metabolism.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


